All right, let's flip over to the back end now
'cause we're gonna start building our GraphQL server
that we can interface with our React application.
Now, I've mentioned a few times
in the past that we're gonna be using
something called Prisma on the back end,
and Prisma is a 100% open source library
that sort of sits on top of an existing
or a brand new database
and provides you a full-featured GraphQL API
that we can use to perform all of our CRUD operations,
all of our relationships, all of our data updating,
everything that we need.
Remember I was showing you in the last video
how I was querying and you can write mutations,
and you can relate data to one another?
I hadn't written any code to get that up and running.
Prisma does all of the heavy lifting for you
to provide you with a full featured GraphQL API.
Then we're gonna layer on something called Yoga
on top of that that will allow us to add our custom logic
that is specific to our application.
So if we look back here,
Prisma gives us a set of CRUD APIs for MySQL or Postgres.
Actually, just at the time of recording,
it also now supports MongoDB,
and they are making adapters
for all kinds of different databases.
And that's really cool because
if your company likes to use an existing database,
or you specifically like to use a database,
then can just use that adapter for it.
However, if you don't care about which database,
it doesn't matter at all because we're never
actually going to be writing any MySQL,
Postgres, or MongoDB queries ourself.
We're always going to be interfacing
with the GraphQL queries that Prisma surfaces for us.
So you can set up your own Prisma instance
by using Docker or something like that.
We are going be using the Demo server from Prisma
in the interest of just getting up and running.
However, do know that you can run your own Prisma,
you can run your own MySQL database,
and that's likely what you will do
putting this thing into production.
So, first thing we need to do is get you
actually signed up for Prisma Demo server.
So we'll go and click on Get Started,
and you can open the console.
It's going to ask you to, or it might not say Open Console,
but it might say Sign Up there.
At the end of the day we just need you to sign up
for a Prisma account and log into that thing.
Then what we'll want to do,
when you're logged in you'll probably see nothing here.
We want to go over to our terminal
and do a little bit of work.
So, the first thing we need to do is make sure,
triple check you're in the back end folder,
not the front end folder,
not just the regular sick-fits folder, the back end folder.
Now, inside of that, we're going to globally install Prisma
'cause Prisma has a command line tool that has some things
for sorta bootstrapping our application,
and we're gonna be using those.
So you type, npm i -g.
The -g is for global, hopefully you know that.
And we install Prisma.
Now it's gonna go ahead and install that globally for us.
Once that has installed, we're going to type prisma login,
and this is actually kind of a nifty way to log in.
I really like it.
So you just type prisma login,
and it's gonna open up your browser to say Grant Permission,
and then you just close the window
and go back to your terminal and you're authenticated,
which I think is pretty cool.
Then what we want to do is to type prisma init
because it's going to sort of follow us
through a whole bunch of steps.
So let's hit that.
It's gonna ask us a few questions here.
So, first one, Set up a Prisma,
do you want to deploy to an existing server?
So, you might have an existing database,
so if you have a MySQL database or a Postgres database
or a MongoDB that you want to connect to, you could do that.
You could set up a local database using Docker,
or you can use either your own
hosted endpoint of a Prisma server,
or you can, in our case, we're going to use the Demo server.
So we're going to use our arrow keys
to hit enter on that one, then it's gonna ask us,
do we want to put it in the US or the EU.
It's kinda cool because it'll show you what the latency is.
Obviously pick the one that has
the least amount of latency for you.
I'm gonna use the US since I'm in Canada, nice and close.
Then choose a name for your service,
so I'm gonna call mine siccccccccck-fits.
And then you have a stage.
So you can have development and production stages,
which is kinda neat.
I'm gonna leave that at dev.
And there we go, it just created.
If I say, get status, it's gonna show us
that it created just these two files here,
and let's actually go ahead
and take a look at what those files are.
First let's open this prisma.yml, so open up prisma.yml,
and you're going to see there's two pieces of information.
We're actually going to be modifying this just slightly.
So the first is the actual endpoint
that we're going to be hitting,
and I'm gonna stick that in
what's called an environmental variable.
And what environmental variables are,
they allow you to set variables
based on the (laughs) environment.
Wow, what an amazing exclamation, explanation, Wes!
What are environmental variables?
Let's say you have development
and then you go to production
and then maybe you have a staging
or maybe you have a different server
that you're testing it out on,
and those things might contain sensitive information
or they might just contain values
that need to change depending on
what environment you are sitting in.
And it's likely that we'll want to change this endpoint
when you switch over to production.
So what we're gonna do is,
we're gonna go to the sidebar here,
and you see that we have this variables.env.sample?
This variables.env file, will, if you open it up,
it's going to contain a whole bunch of information,
of sensitive information.
And let me tell you a couple times,
do not ever push this variable
to anywhere that the public can see.
So it doesn't go on GitHub, and it doesn't go,
and if you look at the gitignore for this file,
it'll show you that it's ignoring all .env files.
But this is just private information
that is specific to your deploy
and should never be seen by the public.
So, first thing we want to do is actually rename this
from variables.env.sample to just varables.env.
A lot of people just have it as a .env file.
However, I find in my tutorials,
because it's a hidden .env file, a lot of people lose it.
So I've renamed mine to variables.env.
So we want to rename it to just variables.env,
take the .sample off.
I get lots of email of people goofing that up.
So I'll say it again.
Do not put the .sample on the end, so remove that.
And then we want to go ahead
and take this endpoint outta here,
and stick it into the PRISMA_ENDPOINT.
Good.
And then we'll go back to our prisma.yml file,
and we'll interpolate with this syntax, $
and then we'll just use
the name of the variable PRISMA_ENDPOINT.
Bam, good.
Couple other things we want to add to this prisma.yml file.
Second, we have this thing called a secret,
and we will use a Prisma secret, so we'll say PRISMA_SECRET,
and what that will do is,
it's going to lock down your database
so that the general public can't just
start going and adding and deleting stuff.
Now, I'm going to make you comment
that out for now because what that allows us,
if you omit the secret then it just makes it wide open,
and that makes it really easy for development,
but at the huge security concern
when you actually go to production.
So we'll want to uncomment that
just before we go to production.
So uncomment that.
We'll go into here and change this secret to something else,
so, uh, I don't know.
That sounds good.
Good, and then finally we need something called
a post-deploy hook because the way that this is gonna happen
is we're gonna modify our data model.
We're gonna add fields, like things like,
we're gonna add the user's email address
and the user's password.
Those are gonna be fields on the user.
And then we need to relay that new updated information
to our Prisma, which is hosted on the Prisma server.
So in order to do that, we need to deploy it,
and then after the deploy is done,
the Prisma server is actually gonna return to us
what's called a GraphQL schema.
So we need what's called a post-deploy hook in there
that will pull that schema for us.
If this seems a little bit confusing,
just hold your horses for just a second,
we'll fill it out and then we'll go through it together.
So, our hooks are going to be,
and make sure you tab in one level, post-deploy,
and then tab in one level, - graphql get-schema -p prisma,
and that will run it.
Okay, good.
I think we've got that.
Let's crack open that other file,
which is that data model here.
So we have type User, and then that User,
this is just the default that it gives you.
User will have an ID and a name,
and obviously we're gonna go and expand this,
as well as create our new types.
But this is the schema of how everything looks.
So what we want to do now is actually deploy
this data model to the Prisma server
that is running on prisma.io.
And normally what you'd do is you go to the command line
and you type prisma deploy
and that's going to take everything
in your prisma.yml file and deploy it,
but it's going to actually complain to you.
Warning, a valid environmental variable to satisfy
declaration PRISMA_ENDPOINT could not be found.
And that's because we are using
this alternate naming convention
for environmental variables file
as variables.env instead of .env.
And the way you can solve that is just by saying,
prisma --help, and we'll see what
all of the Prisma options are.
And we want to deploy so I think we can say
prisma deploy --help.
There we go and then it tells us
that we can pass a custom path to environmental files,
so we can say, prisma deploy --env-file, or just -e
and then we can give it the variables.env file.
And that should actually work.
Oh ho, there we go!
So what's happening here is
it's deploying the service to our sick-fits.
It says okay, here are the following changes that you made.
You created a user, you added the field name,
and the ID name and then you also added the updated
and created fields to that.
I do get this error right here,
command prepare, blah blah blah.
If you get that, it's safe to ignore it.
I have been in touch with the Prisma folks,
and they said that is currently just how it works.
It will be removed at a future.
So even though it's red, it is just a warning,
and it's not anything you need to worry about.
Now, if we go back to our Prisma console here,
and you refresh, you should now see
your sick-fits service showing up.
And you might have to go to servers first
and select either EU or US.
I deployed to US so I'm gonna click on that one.
And you see, here we go, sick-fits,
this is our actual database that we've worked on,
and you can use this really handy data browser
where you can see all of the different values that we have.
Let me show you the actual finished one that I have here,
where I can go to my data browser.
I can see that there is users.
These are all of the users that we have,
all of the different cart items,
all of the orders that I have created,
all the items and all of the order items.
So go back to Services.
One thing you do need to note is that your requests
are limited at 10 per 10 seconds, I believe.
So I'm just on the Prisma docs here,
and it says, here we go, Prisma sandboxes,
which is what we're using, the Demo server,
10 requests per 10 seconds, which is fine.
If you do more than that in 10 seconds,
then it will just queue them up,
and you can queue up to 25 requests.
That's not going to be an issue
when you are in development
because you're not gonna be hitting that many.
At most we'll be firing off
three or four requests per page load,
and by the time you come back to that,
that will have cleared.
But, for production, obviously you don't want
to be using the Demo server.
So we've got that up and running.
One other thing we want to take a look at is,
if I take a git status now, you'll see that
there's a couple different things that have changed here.
First, obviously we deleted this variables.env file
and renamed it to variables.env.
So now it looks like that's been deleted
because we don't track the new variables.env.
Our Prisma and data model are there,
but the modified, this is what comes down.
Remember when we wrote that post-deploy hook
in our prisma.yml file?
What this does is it goes ahead
and gets the schema after we deploy it
and we can look at that.
It's in the source folder generated prisma.graphql.
So let's look at prisma.graphql,
and this is the magic that is behind all of what Prisma is.
So it creates this API,
and all of the API lives in this prisma.graphql.
So you can take a look at, we have all our Mutations,
createUser, updateUser, deleteUser,
upsert, updateManyUsers, deleteManyUsers.
So we didn't have to create any endpoints or anything
to be able to use all of these Mutations.
As well as, this is one thing
that's kinda bugging me right now,
the syntax highlighting in VS Code is broken.
There are two syntax highlighters
that you could use to highlight it.
One is from Prisma themselves.
It is brand new at the time of recording.
However, it has this problem with the broken one.
The other one is GraphQL for VS Code,
has almost 300,000 installs,
and it also has this problem as well.
A couple months ago I made an issue.
It looked like it was fixed,
but looks like it has come back to haunt us,
which is annoying because this is
what comments are in GraphQL is three quotes.
So if you are trying to like read this,
you can simply just remove it,
delete the comments,
and that's going to actually give you
the proper syntax highlighting that we're looking for.
So what else do we have?
We have different queries,
if we want to query a bunch of users,
if we want to query one user,
if we want UserConnection.
We're gonna be using that with our pagination.
This will give us information about
how many users are there in total, et cetera, et cetera.
Everything that you could possibly need.
See how large this file is?
Just for one data model with two fields,
it creates a GraphQL API that would have been,
what, almost 250 lines of coding?
And this is going to get into the thousands
and thousands of lines of code,
as we create more complex data models.
So, let's actually go ahead and add something.
So maybe we'll say we want an email,
and the type is going to be a String,
and with GraphQL, the syntax of it is pretty interesting.
First of all, the name for these are called fields.
This is a type.
These are called fields.
And then you specify the type of that field.
And you can say all the different types are,
let's just go to the GraphQL documentation,
take a look at what all the different types are.
So we have fields.
We're gonna learn about arguments and fragments
and directives and all that good stuff coming through.
But click through to object types and fields,
and you can see that the built-in ones are
integers, floats, strings, booleans, ID,
and then in addition to that,
Prisma will expose a date/time type for us,
which is automatically added to the user for tracking
both when it was created and when it was last updated.
Similarly, we can also put an exclamation mark
on the end and that will make sure that it is required.
And if you would like an array of strings
instead of just one string,
you can simply put some angle brackets around it,
and that would be an array of strings,
where each string is not required,
but the array itself is required.
If you wanted both of them to be required,
you could put a bang on each of them.
But we're gonna back that up
and just make it a string that is required.
These right here, where you have an @,
these are called directives in GraphQL,
and directives can do anything that you want.
And they are implemented by your GraphQL server,
so if we take a look at the GraphQL directive,
you can see that we have @name,
you have @unique, which is what we're using here.
You have @relation for setting relations between values.
You have defaults, which is used for obviously
setting defaults of the value.
So we're gonna go through some of them.
There are some other ones I haven't used in here
which is @rename.
So once we have added the email,
what do we have to do?
Well, we have to go and re-deploy it again,
but remember we typed that really long thing,
prisma deploy env file variables.env?
What I've done, if you open up your package.json,
you're gonna see that I've created npm script called deploy,
which will sorta tuck away all of that hard stuff,
which is prisma deploy env file variables.env.
And we can simply just go here and type npm run deploy.
What that's gonna do
is it, see, it tells you what changes we had.
We created a field email with the type of string.
It also gives you a link to your GraphQL database endpoint,
so you can actually click on that.
And this is going to give us
what is called a GraphQL playground,
and this is what I was playing around with earlier.
It allows us to just go into it,
so we can look at our schema and see what we have.
We have different queries and we have different mutations.
And let's actually just go ahead and play with them now.
So, if I were to query users,
and for each user I want to grab the ID,
and you can hit your Control + Space,
and the name of the person.
Go ahead and run it.
There's obviously no one there,
but if we were to, let's create a new tab here,
and we'll make a mutation.
And we'll say create user,
and it tells us that you need to pass it,
the only thing that you can pass it is data.
So sometimes you can pass it directly, like name is Wes,
and sometimes they'll tuck it away in its own type,
which in this case is just data,
which has a type of createUser input.
And if you don't know what a createUser input is,
you can go to your schema take a look at createUser,
and then it says it requires a createUser input
which is right here, argument, createUser input.
So we can click through to that,
and it tells us that a specific type
that has been created is called,
UserCreateInput, and that requires a string and email.
So that's what we're gonna do here.
The data is going to be name, Wes Bos,
again with the single quotes.
This is gonna be the death of me.
You do not actually need these commas here,
it's just my own habit from writing JavaScript,
but you do not need it.
And same with the email, it's going to be hey@cool.com.
So, this is up and running.
It's yelling at us now because when you create a user,
you actually have to ask for some specific data back
when it pings back.
So in our case, what do we wanna pull back?
Let's just grab the name and the email
of the user that we just created.
So if I go ahead and run that,
okay, it looks like it has worked.
And there's two ways that we can
actually check if it has worked.
So let me close down some of these here.
We can go to our data browser here,
so I click on Services, go to my sick-fits here,
and on the side, you should see, oh, our data browser User.
There's the user that we just created,
so we can actually see it in here.
And why I like using this is you can actually
edit the data directly from here if you double click it.
And that's often much easier
than having to manually write the query
or the mutation right inside of here.
But if we flip back to Users here
and we were to run that again,
you see that our data comes back.
Let's do that again.
Go back to createUser.
Let's change that to Joe Cool,
and he's gonna be joeboy69@coolboys.net.
Good, it ran.
Go back to our Users, query 'em, good.
Let's get some,
let's get comfortable with some of the other things.
So, users can also take arguments,
so if you don't have any arguments for it, it's just users,
but if you wanna pass it arguments you give it parentheses,
and then if you wanna know what to pass it,
Control + Space, I'll say where,
that's gonna be an object.
Let's just say, where the name contains Wes.
Oh, it's double quotes.
Run it again and you should only get one.
Similarly, we also have userConnection.
So lets go ahead and try that out, so let's do a query.
We want the userConnection,
and from that we want the,
we can get some page info.
What will that?
hasNextPage, hasPreviousPage, startCursor, endCursor.
We'll be talking about that when we hit pagination,
but you can also from here get the aggregate,
and that will have a count.
So see how it automatically filled it in there?
The only value the aggregate will give you is count,
so it automatically just filled it in there.
So if I run it now, it'll tell us,
usersConnection hasNextPage: false,
hasPreviousPage: false, aggregate, there's two of 'em.
But if I were to specifically limit that to the first one,
now when I run it, it's gonna tell us,
okay, there is two users.
However, you asked for the first one,
so there is clearly a next page.
So that's what we'll be hitting
once we hit our pagination level.
So, that is our Prisma setup.
It's nice to have this.
However, we are not going to be interfacing
with this directly because you notice that anybody
that has this URL is able to just go in
and willy nilly start creating stuff,
as well as when you create a user,
we need to hash passwords and all that stuff,
and that's where the next video is gonna come in.
That's where our Yoga server is going to live.
So, see ya in the next one.